docs/monitor-linux.md, before:

## Monitor Linux with the ServiceNow Collector

| Linux Distibution                              | Support Status            | Architecture |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------ |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Amazon Linux  | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |
| Ubuntu                                         | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |
| Debian                                         | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |

### Automated package install for Linux server monitoring

This install approach automatically downloads dependencies and installs the collector as a service on Linux using a Debian or RPM package. Priviliged (root) access is needed.

1. As `sudo`, run the following in your shell:
  - ```sh
    sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSlL https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases/latest/download/install-unix.sh)" install_unix.sh
    ```

2. Review the collector configuration installed in `/opt/sn-collector/config.yaml`. The collector will automatically start running with the default configuration.

3. To *uninstall*, run:
  - ```sh
    sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSlL https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases/latest/download/install-unix.sh)" install_unix.sh --uninstall
    ```

### Package install for Linux server monitoring

Gather system metrics from a Linux system using an installed software package. Use this for servers and hosts that **do not** have Docker or a container runtime.

1. Download the appropriate package for your system and CPU architecture from the [Releases](https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases) page of this repository. 
    - If you're not sure about what architecture your system is using, inspect the output of the `arch` command.
    ```sh
    arch
    ```

2. Install the downloaded package using the appropriate package manager for your Linux distribution.
  - RPM (RHEL, CentOS, Amazon Linux) package with `yum`:
    ```sh
    sudo yum install -y otelcol-servicenow_version_linux_arch.rpm 
    ```
  - Debian (Ubuntu) package with `apt-get`:
    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install -y otelcol-servicenow_version_linux_arch.deb 
    ```

3. Follow the post-install instructions on starting the collector service.

### Install for Linux host monitoring with Docker

Gather host system metrics from a Linux using a Docker image.

1. Pull the latest Docker image for the collector.
  - ```sh
    docker pull ghcr.io/lightstep/sn-collector/sn-collector-experimental:latest
    ```

2. Run the collector as a container, but mount the host filesystem to gather host metrics. Edit the configuration file as needed.
  - ```sh
    docker run --rm --name sn-collector-experimental \
      -v ./collector/config/otelcol-docker-hostmetrics.yaml:/etc/otelcol/config.yaml \
      -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
      -v /:/hostfs
      -e LS_TOKEN=your-cloud-obs-token
      ghcr.io/lightstep/sn-collector/sn-collector-experimental:latest
    ```

3. View the container logs and verify data is being sent.

Commit message:

allow token to be set during autoinstall

docs/monitor-linux.md, after:

## Monitor Linux with the ServiceNow Collector

| Linux Distibution                              | Support Status            | Architecture |
| ---------------------------------------------- | ------------------------- | ------------ |
| Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL), Amazon Linux  | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |
| Ubuntu                                         | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |
| Debian                                         | last three major versions | ARM, AMD     |

### Automated package install for Linux server monitoring

This install approach automatically downloads dependencies and installs the collector as a service on Linux using a Debian or RPM package. Priviliged (root) access is needed.

1. As `sudo`, run the following in your shell. If you do not specify an optional token, edit the configuration file after install complete.
  - ```sh
    export CLOUDOBS_TOKEN='your-cloudobs-access-token'
    sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSlL https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases/latest/download/install-unix.sh)" install_unix.sh --ingest-token $CLOUDOBS_TOKEN
    ```

2. Review the collector configuration installed in `/opt/sn-collector/config.yaml`. The collector will automatically start running with the default configuration.

3. To *uninstall*, run:
  - ```sh
    sudo sh -c "$(curl -fsSlL https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases/latest/download/install-unix.sh)" install_unix.sh --uninstall
    ```

### Package install for Linux server monitoring

Gather system metrics from a Linux system using an installed software package. Use this for servers and hosts that **do not** have Docker or a container runtime.

1. Download the appropriate package for your system and CPU architecture from the [Releases](https://github.com/lightstep/sn-collector/releases) page of this repository. 
    - If you're not sure about what architecture your system is using, inspect the output of the `arch` command.
    ```sh
    arch
    ```

2. Install the downloaded package using the appropriate package manager for your Linux distribution.
  - RPM (RHEL, CentOS, Amazon Linux) package with `yum`:
    ```sh
    sudo yum install -y otelcol-servicenow_version_linux_arch.rpm 
    ```
  - Debian (Ubuntu) package with `apt-get`:
    ```sh
    sudo apt-get install -y otelcol-servicenow_version_linux_arch.deb 
    ```

3. Follow the post-install instructions on starting the collector service.

### Install for Linux host monitoring with Docker

Gather host system metrics from a Linux using a Docker image.

1. Pull the latest Docker image for the collector.
  - ```sh
    docker pull ghcr.io/lightstep/sn-collector/sn-collector-experimental:latest
    ```

2. Run the collector as a container, but mount the host filesystem to gather host metrics. Edit the configuration file as needed.
  - ```sh
    docker run --rm --name sn-collector-experimental \
      -v ./collector/config/otelcol-docker-hostmetrics.yaml:/etc/otelcol/config.yaml \
      -v /var/run/docker.sock:/var/run/docker.sock \
      -v /:/hostfs
      -e LS_TOKEN=your-cloud-obs-token
      ghcr.io/lightstep/sn-collector/sn-collector-experimental:latest
    ```

3. View the container logs and verify data is being sent.
